Indian Institute of Information Technology, Kottayam at Valavoor, Pala, Kerala is one among the IIITs that have
been established as "Institutions of National Importance" by Ministry of Education, Govt. of India under the ambit
of IIIT (PPP) Act 2017. IIIT Kottayam campus is situated at Valavoor, Pala, Kottayam - a picturous location, spread
over in 53 acres of land - allotted by Govt. of Kerala in the southern part of the state commonly referred to as God's
Own Country. As one of a few Indian Institutes of repute, IIIT Kottayam offers specialized courses covering all major
research domains of computer science and engineering: IoT, Data science, Cloud Computing, Artificial Intelligence,
Machine learning, Parallel Computing, Brain simulation, HPC, Programming languages, Bioinformatics, and so forth,
as part of the 4 year B.Tech program. An M.Tech course is organized exclusively for the working professionals on
Artificial Intelligence & Data Science, Cyber Security, CSE with Specialization in Big Data & Machine Learning . In
addition, it offers Ph.D program in CSE/ECE/Mathematics.
IIIT Kottayam is located in the central part of Kerala, phrased as God’s Own Country. Kerala is the state with 100
percentage literacy; it is a business hub for trading spices and is an industrial sector for rubber industries, including
MRF tyres. IIIT Kottayam is located in an ideal place where students could reach Trivandrum, Kochi, or Bangalore
for establishing business and research developments. IIIT Kottayam has already established MoU with some leading
industrial / academic institutions in order to ensure placements or organize knowledge transfer programs -- MoUs
with Government of India, Government of Kerala, Rolta, and CIAL has manifested the organization of knowledge
transfer program. In addition, it has signed MoUs with world leading Universities such as Technical University Munich
Germany and University of New Brunswick Canada, in order to conduct HPC/Cloud/Datascience specific joint
research and to organize student exchange programs. In addition, inorder to boost up the innovation ambience at our
Institute, we have joined hands with leading industries over the globe such as RELIANCE RIL, Wadhwani
Foundation, BOSE Info Tech, Germany, and so forth.
